Unknown Object Photographed over Wurzburg, Germany


Wurzburg, Germany - March 8, 2009
Last Sunday I had a rather strange encounter with a disturbing object in the sky above Wurzburg, Germany. I was walking along the railroad lines along the river Main to scout new fishing locations. It was already pretty late, it was getting dark, I started to freeze and I wanted to move back towards the city, when I noticed the silence. 
There was no car, nothing. I stopped and looked around me. Although it was a pretty bad day to be out, nature had a strange beauty in the fading daylight. Suddenly I got a strange feeling in my chest, like when I was standing on a vibrating platform, but only very faint. Suddenly I felt weak and then I noticed an object in the sky. It was hovering just at the base of the deep hanging clouds and disappeared every once in awhile into the moving clouds maintaining its altitude. There was no sound except some light wind, only the strange humming feeling inside my body, maybe like pulsating electricity, I have no idea, I haven't felt like that before. At first, while it was still pretty close, I didn't move at all. I was like in a shock. But while it slowly moved away I realized that what I was seeing might be quite unique and took out my cell phone. I wanted to take a picture but the display wasn't working right. The images had stripes and pressing the trigger didn't do anything. Only when the object was already pretty far it worked, I shot the attached picture and then, seconds later, the disk was covered in clouds once more and I never saw it again. Here are a few facts: 

size: can't tell, but I would guess it was pretty big, like 50 meters maybe? The clouds, although deep this day, are still a few hundred meters above ground, so the thing should be bigger than just 10 meters. 

Shape: flat gray disk with lights at the bottom 

Height: just below the clouds/ in the clouds 

Time: around 6 PM, dawn 

Speed: slowly moving across the sky 

Lights: three white/bluish and one red, no blinking etc. 

Duration: very hard to tell, it felt much longer than it probably was, maybe 15 seconds for the whole encounter 


As I work for the local city administration I cannot give you my real name, nobody would take me serious anymore here in Wurzburg. I never believed in aliens or UFOs, but this thing got me thinking and I actually have no satisfying explanation for it. Maybe you guys know more about this thing, especially because it doesn't look like the typical UFO that I have seen on the many silly photos on TV. 


Regards, 

Martin 

