
1978-SPANISH ENCOUNTER (Motorist Sees Humanoid Being from UFO)


 Location. Near Alicante, Spain-  Date: July 5 1978 Time: 0230A

  Businessman Pablo R. was returning from a late meeting on 
an isolated curvy road when he sees an intense light up 
ahead and immediately thinks it is another vehicle with 
its high beams on. Suddenly the light is hidden behind a 
hill and moments later it again re-emerges, still shining
intensively. 
  He was surprised at the shade of light which was'nt white
but very bright onange in color. The light disappeared again
at a curve and then it appeared again, this time very close
to the witness. The witness then slowed down in order to 
see the light better.
 
  At this point he realizes that the light is shaped like a
disc and is huge. The huge bright orange disc was on the 
left side of the road. The witness then decided to 
accelerate his car and drive away from the area as quickly 
as possible. But at that same instant the orange light 
dimmed and at the same time the car engine began sputtering,
his headlights shut off and the car came to a complete stop
in the middle of complete darkness. He came to a stop and 
could not see anything around him, even the orange light 
was now gone.
 
  Moments later Pablo heard a strange voice calling his 
name from the darkness. Terrified he began to tremble, it 
was the only time when he felt fear thinking that he was 
going to be a victim of highway robbery. But suddenly he 
realized that the voice was calling him by his name, he 
thought that it must be someone he knew and in the darkness
he now could see a tall, human like figure, about 1.80m 
in height, maybe taller.
 
  The figure wore a tight-fitting semi-transparent coverall,
which the witness thought was strange since it was very hot.
The figure's face was normal in appearance except for large 
luminous slightly slanted eyes. Immediately the witness felt
a sense of peace and tranquility as he and the stranger 
established a telepathic conversation. Using the telepathy
the tall figure confirmed to the witness that he was indeed
an extraterrestrial and meant him no harm and was on 
earth on a peace mission.
 
  The extraterrestrial told the witness that earth 
scientists did not know about his planet since it was in 
a "dark zone" in which telescopes or other types of 
equipment were unable to reach. He added that using our 
fastest spaceships it would take humans hundreds of years 
to reach his planet using our outdated technology". They 
traveled using a concept that did not deal with speed or 
distance and was totally incomprehensible to current earth
physics.
 
  The surprised witness then pointed out that the visitor 
was indeed human in appearance; the extraterrestrial smiled
slightly and said, "Of course, in our planets we are all 
humans just like you. There are certain anatomical 
differences but they are slight. However what makes us much 
difference from earthlings is not the physical matter but 
the inequality of our evolutions, first mental and then 
astral and spiritually." The extraterrestrial added that 
humans were still evolving in the "physical plane" but were 
in the brink in initiating a mental and astral evolution 
and then spiritual evolution which will change humanity 
forever. But he then added that we were still a long way 
from this threshold.
  The witness then asked if there were other different 
extraterrestrial civilizations, the stranger said, "Of 
course there are, many come in peace others to observe and
others are not our friends, since the forces of evil and 
good exist throughout the cosmos.
  Later the extraterrestrial added rather cryptically, 
"I am authorized to answer most of your questions, you see 
my contact with you was very carefully planned, take it 
with calm, remember the time factor doesn't matter, this 
exchange will take only a few minutes of your time, you 
can ask all the questions you like, if they are concrete I
will attempt to answer them.
  The witness then went on to ask numerous questions, like 
why they didn't pick some important politician to contact, 
the extraterrestrial told him that politicians were not in 
their interest since they did not act in a spiritual manner.
He added that his planet was governed by a council 
consisting of their most adept and intelligent of their 
species, it was sort of a one planetary government. The 
witness then asked if they believed in God, the 
extraterrestrial said "Yes but we discard the 
anthropomorphic concept which humans developed. He then 
insisted that the witness did not ask any more questions
about God since he was too high up to talk about him. 
He then added that humans only needed to "love" God.
 
  The witness then asked which planets in our solar system
had life, the answer was that eons ago there had been life 
on Venus, Mars and even on our moon. There still remain 
many hidden bases on those planets some of which have been
detected by our astronauts and kept secret.
 
  The stranger also added that there was an advanced 
civilization on Jupiters moon Ganymede, which was similar 
to that of Earths and was striving to make contact with 
humans. He also added that Neptune contained a "hidden" 
civilization which was impossible for humans to see.
  There were countless inhabited worlds in the known 
universe which they knew, they had counted more than 120,000
so far, many less advanced than that of the human 
civilization.
 
  The witness then asked the inevitable question, "What 
happens when we die? The answer was surprising, There is 
no absolute death. The different religions on your planet
explain it very capably, although with essential 
differences. The witness then asked, Who was Jesus Christ, 
the answer, "Somebody who you have not yet totally 
understood? How can we understand him better? asked the 
witness. Just try to understand this; his main message was
one, "LOVE", which is the way, the spiritual way, was the 
answer.
 
  The visitor then added, humanity should not fear us, they
should only fear themselves, thats were the danger lies. 
At this point the witness insisted in a clarification of 
the statement but the visitor remained silent.
 
  Upon asking if there were extraterrestrials of difference
appearance from that of humans, the visitor said, that 
evolution has not been equal throughout the Universe and 
there exists some marked differences in some species.
 
  The visitor then spoke about his home planet, "Our planet
has been inhospitable for thousands of years now. A thick 
slab of ice several kilometers thick covers it. But our 
ancestors managed to survive and under extreme hardships
overcame the abstractness of matter and cosmic evolution, 
in that way we have been able to build vast gardens on the
ice and build huge underground cities, in which there 
exists neither heat nor cold". Their main source of energy
was a white form of cosmic energy which they called Abuchal.
  Finally the witness asked the visitor his name, "My name 
is Naazra-Abuc. I am the second in command of the craft that
you have seen. Forgive us for disabling your vehicles 
electrical system, it is a simple method which earthling 
will soon learn how to use." The witness said that no one will 
believe his story, but was told by the visitor that only 
he had to believe it. 
  Moments later the figure disappeared into the darkness and
minutes later the witness saw a large luminous disc rise 
into the sky and disappear to the witness. The witness' 
vehicle then started and he noticed that it was now only 
0233 AM.


source and references:

Source: Manuel Nava Arcos, Los Grandes Contactados
Comments: Translated by Albert S. Rosales
