1948, The Aztec UFO Crash
In 1950, controversial author Frank Scully released the book, "Behind the Flying Saucers."
This effort, written during the beginnings of UFO awareness in the United States, was 
considered to contain fabricated, or sensationalized accounts of four UFO crashes. One of the accounts
covered an alleged crash at Aztec, New Mexico in 1948, only a brief period of time after the
famous Roswell incident.

Scully's information came largely from a mysterious Dr. Gee. Depending on which commentary
you read, the identity of this physician is attributed to either a real doctor, or a fictitious
person who was composed of elements of several different witnesses. Scully described the Aztec
crash as that of a craft which was measured at exactly 99.99 feet in diameter, covered by a 
material which resembled a light weight,  shiny metal that possessed incredible strength and
durability. It seems that nothing on this earth could penetrate or damage the hull of this craft
from another world.


The disc shaped craft had large metallic rings revolving around a central core, which was
supposedly the control bridge of the object. The hull of the craft contained no apparent seams, 
rivets, or any hint of the material being pieced together.
As the story goes, the investigating
team gained access to its interior by the use of a long pole which they pushed through a porthole
in the saucer. A knob was engaged which opened a previously hidden door. Once inside, the
team found 16 small humanoid beings, all dead, their bodies charred from fire. The aliens height
was reported as 36-42 inches. The exterior of the craft was not damaged. The inside showed
that the craft was put together with a framework of grooves and pins.

The craft and the alien bodies were allegedly sent to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Other
supporting evidence of the Aztec crash was said to have surfaced in 1987 from one William
Steinman, but his sources were never verified. Steinman asserted that the crash occurred on
March 25, 1948, and was verified by three different radar stations. Steinman's account listed
14 dead aliens instead of 16. Until supporting evidence of Scully's or Steinman's account
can be obtained, the Aztec crash story remains an unsolved mystery.
(B J Booth)
