
This piece of metal was picked up after a UFO explosion over Toninha's Beach, in Ubatuba, Sao Paula State, Brazil, in 1957. This sample was analyzed and the results showed a  99.99% pure magnesium. This other piece fell down from one of the three UFO's that had flown over the city of Caminas, Sao Paulo State, Brazil, on December, 1954. Tests proved the material to be 88.91% pure tin. Mr. Sued gave all three pieces of metal to Dr. Fontes, who in turn had one of them analyzed at the Mineral Production Laboratory of the Department of Mineral Production in the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture. Dr. Fontes personally delivered the samples to the chief chemist, Dr. Fiegl, an internationally known specialist. A qualitative, acid test was first made on a small chip, which showed that the fragments were truly metallic.


One of the original fragments, designated Sample No.1 by Dr. Fontes, was subdivided into several pieces and two of the pieces were submitted to the Spectrographic Section of the Mineral Production Laboratory Semi-Quantitative Emmission Spectrochemical Analysis. One of the pieces was analyzed by Dr. Luisa Maria A. Barbosa. The analysis surprisingly revealed that the sample contained only the element magnesium. A second fragment of Sample No.1 was submitted to a separate spectrographic analysis by Mr. Elson Teixeira of the Mineral Production Laboratory. Mr. Teixeira confirmed Dr. Barbosa's finding that Sample No.1 was pure magnesium. Further tests were run on fragments of Sample No. 1. These included Debye-Scherrer-Hull powder pattern X-ray diffraction analysis, density measurement, and radiation tests. 



The significance of Dr. Barbosa's and Mr. Teixeira's findings is that it is impossible to produce any element, terrestrially, that is absolutely spectrographically pure. These results, therefore, are often cited by proponents of UFO extraterrestrial existence as proof that the Ubatuba material must be EXTRATERRESTRIAL. Unfortunately, this supposition cannot be proven, due to the lack of any further Sample No.1 fragments for verification analysis. The Ubatuba incident is certainly in need of futher verification, especially the details of the UFO incident itself. All we have is the word of one anonymous person who wrote the letter received by a newspaper. The case itself is dated by the receipt of the letter, and not the incident of the crash, so there are no first hand witnesses to the UFO incident itself.
Source: The Encyclopedia of UFOs, 374, Ron Story
Walter W. Walker
