
1985-The Abduction of Whitley Strieber


Whitley Strieber is one of the most well known UFO researchers in the area of alien abduction, and alien implants. 
His well known book,  "Communion" is a UFO classic. It was also made into a movie by the same name. 

In upper state New York over the 1985 Christmas holidays, Strieber was staying in his isolated cabin with his wife and son. At this time, Strieber was already a well know writer. He had become somewhat suspect of potential intruders, and had recently installed a high tech alarm system in the cabin.

At approximately 11:00 PM on the 26th of December, he activated the system, and the family retired for the night. After a couple of hours, he was awakened by an unusual sound. He felt that the security of his cabin had been breached. He was soon shocked to see a creature in his bedroom.

After this, the next thing he knew he was sitting in the woods which surrounded his cabin. His memories of what had occurred were fragmented. Eventually, to reestablish memories of that night, and understand what had really happened, he would undergo regressive hypnosis by Dr. Donald F. Klein.

The hypnotic regression would uncover many of the details of his experience. He recalled that he had been "floated" out of his bedroom and into a waiting UFO. He would see four different types of alien beings, one a small, robot type of being, secondly, a short, stocky type, the third was very slender and weak looking. It had mesmerising black eyes that slanted, and the last being had black, button eyes.

He was subjected to medical testing by these aliens. One of these was the insertion of a needle into his brain, and another involved an object being inserted into his rectum. The beings took a blood sample from him by making an incision in his finger.

The recounting of the most bizarre facts, caused Dr. Klein to diagnose Strieber with "temporal lobe epilepsy." This condition can cause one to have hallucinations. Strieber did not accept the diagnosis, and recounted his abduction as a real event. He would eventually establish a foundation as a support group for alien abductees.


source and references:

Whitley Streiber, "Communion"
http://www.unknowncountry.com/
