Betty Cash and Vicki Landrum were interviewed in 1981 at Bergstrom
Air Force Base. The UFO Casebook has a 
 transcription  of this taped session.
  
                 Betty Cash, one of three people injured in a UFO close encounter 
                 near Huffman, Texas, on December 29, 1980, died on the 18th 
                 anniversary of the event, in Birmingham, Alabama. She had been in 
                 poor health ever since the encounter. At the time of the event, Mrs. 
                 Cash operated her own businesses near Dayton, Texas. 
  
                 Betty Cash, along with Vickie Landrum and grandson Colby 
                 Landrum, encountered a huge UFO accompanied by military 
                 helicopters on a dark road in the east Texas Piney Woods. They 
                 were exposed to radiation from the object, which caused extreme 
                 medical problems such as burns, eye damage, hair loss, diarrhea, and 
                 vomiting. Although they and others observed a large number of 
                 military helicopters along with the UFO, the U.S. Government 
                 refused to acknowledge the event or assist them in any way. 
  
                 After the encounter, Betty Cash was hospitalized and treated for 
                 burns and the other maladies. The extent of the injuries was so great, 
                 she was forced to close her businesses and never worked again. He 
                 life became a series of hospital stays, many of them in intensive care. 
                 Eventually, she developed cancer, which was successfully treated. In 
                 November 1998, Mrs. Cash suffered a stroke. On December 29, 
                 during her recovery, an unusual turn of events claimed her life. 
  
                 Mrs. Cash was a hero in the fight against government UFO 
                 cover-ups and brought hope to other victims of UFO incidents. She 
                 was devoted to family and friends and never allowed her illness to 
                 prevent her from helping others to cope with the trauma of UFO 
                 close encounters. 
  
          
  
                 Betty Cash will be missed... but never forgotten. 
  
                 Peter A. Gersten Director 


    

   In 1981 I represented three People in a lawsuit against the United 
                 States Government for injuries that resulted from their contact with 
                 an unusual aerial object. Betty Cash, Vicky Landrum and Colby 
                 Landrum are the only three People to ever sue our government for 
                 injuries from a UFO. On the eighteenth anniversary of her 
                 encounter, Betty Cash died. 
  
                 Betty Cash was a warrior and heroine. She fought the US 
                 government and, even in defeat, showed a spirit and tenacity that will 
                 now be her epitaph. CAUS and I pay tribute to a very brave 
                 lady... and a victim of this government's callousness to the rights of 
                 the individual.  

From Peter Gersten, Attorney, 1-3-99  
