Alleged UFO Crash in Russia 1989


At approximately 11:00 AM on August 10, 1989 near the city of Prohladnyi, Russia, Soviet military radar units detected an unidentified flying object. After attempts to communicate went unanswered, the object was noted as "hostile."

Defense systems were put on alert, with utilization of surface to air missiles, and the deployment of Mig-25s. Blasting out of Rostov and Krymsk, the Migs were ordered to intercept and identify the unknown object.

The UFO was on a north heading, like foreign missiles or planes would be, and the order was given to arm and use weapons. A ground to air missile hit the UFO, causing it to ditch over the Caucasian Mountains.

A retrieval team on board an M1-8 helicopter was sent, and the disc-shaped object was located outside of Nizhnizy Chegem, and the area around the crash site was soon cordoned off. The object was 6.9 meters long and 3.0 meters high, shaped like a cockleshell, according to witnesses.

A long rut in the earth could be seen leading to the craft, which had smashed into an area of rocks. The damage from the missile was obvious, causing the object to lose its original shape. A team with special protective equipment moved into the scene. Dosimeters detected radiation, and precautionary measures were immediately taken, but not before some team members had been exposed.

The object was delivered by helicopter to Mozdok Air Base, where nuclear weapons and long range bombers were housed. A special investigative team was assembled, and sent to the base to begin an investigation into the mysteries of the unknown flying object. This team consisted of military and civilian personnel. The KGB began a cover-up operation.

The craft research team gained entry into the craft via a partially opened door. The team was in full protective gear as they began their investigation of the inside of the craft. As one would expect, control panels and equipment was visible, but more importantly three alien creatures, two dead were found. The two dead aliens had apparently been killed by falling equipment, but the third managed to save itself, but was suffering from several wounds.

A medical team attempted to keep the alien alive, but their efforts failed. He and his two companions were about 1.0-1.2 meters tall, with whitish gray skin that appeared to be outer cover. The real skin beneath this cover was a blue-green color with a reptilian texture. The other worldly beings also had hairless heads, large black eyes,  almost round, which were covered by a protective lid. Three web fingers were at the end of their long, slender arms. 

The three dead aliens were preserved in glass containers in a top-secret underground facility. This secret location is allegedly hidden among the multitude of trees near the research center east of Solnechnogorsk. The damaged disc was taken to the Kapustin Yar range and placed under ground west of Ahryomkin. All of the information included here originated from three Russian investigators; Anton Anfalov, Lenura Azizova and Alexander Mosolov. They claim that the disc is still housed near Kapustin Yar.


source and references:

written by B J Booth, based on information from Anton Anfalov, Lenura Azizova and Alexander Mosolov.
