The McChord UFO Incident 1972

Source: Bill Hamilton (skywatcher22@hotmail.com)
Preamble


This is from the files of AFOSI dated in October 1972. Note that Blue Book
closed it's doors in December 1969 but yet here almost three years later we
see that the Air Force is still collecting UFO reports then proceeding to
classify them. No fictitious names or places were used in this report. The
names and events are real.

On October 14, 1972, Airman First Class(AIC) Steven Briggs and Airman(AMN)
Dennis Hillsgeck were instructed to check the tactical air navigational
(TACAN) facility located eight miles east of McChord Air Force Base.  The
TACAN site was situated on government land maintained by the United State
Army, Ft. Lewis.  Briggs and Hillsgeck drove to the TACAN site at
approximately 1300 hours.  Upon their arrival, they opened the locked fence
surrounding the TACAN facility and entered the compound.  Once inside the
compound, they opened the TACAN building and began to conduct a systems
check of the TACAN equipment.  At approximately 1400 hours., Briggs heard a
strange sound outside the building.  According to Briggs, it sounded like a
high pitch engine.  Briggs exited the building to investigate the sound.
Once outside, Briggs observed a saucer shaped object directly above the
TACAN building.  Briggs watched as the object landed just south of the TACAN
compound.  Briggs was startled by the object and entered the TACAN building
to summoned Hillsgeck.  Once Hillsgeck and Briggs exited the building
together, they observed two "creatures" walking towards the fence.

Briggs returned to the building and telephoned (555) the base security
police.  He yelled that they needed help at the TACAN site because
"intruders" were attempting to enter the facility.  The phone call was
received by Sgt David Holmes, the Law Enforcement Desk Sergeant, 62nd
Security Police Squadron.  Sgt Holmes dispatched Sgt Dwight Reid and AIC
Michael Tash to the scene.  It took the security police patrol 17 minutes to
travel to the TACAN site.  Upon their arrival, they observed Briggs and
Hillsgeck standing near their government vehicle.  Both appeared to be in a
daze.  Neither could speak.  Sgt Reid summoned an USAF Ambulance to the
scene.  Hillsgeck appeared to have been burnt around the face.  AIC Tash
walked around the area and found marks in the soft Washington state dirt.
Then suddenly, Sgt Reid yelled to AIC Tash that an object was directly over his head.  

A saucer shaped object was hovering just above the TACAN facility.  Sgt Reid 
attempted to communicate to the security police law enforcement office by using his
Motorola HT-220 portable radio. However the radio did not function.  Sgt
Reid then yelled for AIC Tash to return to the police vehicle.  Sgt Reid and
AIC Tash retrieved Briggs and Hillsgeck and drove from the scene.

Approximately one mile from the TACAN site, Sgt Reid was able to communicate
with the security police office, requesting assistance and declaring a
"Covered Wagon."  Four additional security policemen arrived on scene,
including, Sgt Darren Alexander and his military dog-Champ.  Sgt Alexander
and Champ drove to the scene and started to search the area.  Approximately
400 yards south of the TACAN site, Champ alerted.  Sgt Alexander observed
two "creatures" standing near a remote power station.  Sgt Alexander yelled
for the two "creatures" to stand and raise their hands.  Both creatures then
moved towards Sgt Alexander.  Sgt Alexander observed that one of the
creatures was holding an object, which Sgt Alexander thought was a weapon.

Sgt Alexander fired six rounds from his military issued Model 15, .38
Caliber Revolver.  After firing the shots, Sgt Alexander returned to his
vehicle and radioed Sgt Reid that he had fired at the creatures.  A Security
Alert Team (similar to a police SWAT) arrived.  They conducted a search of
the area and observed the saucer shaped object sitting on the ground,
directly east of the power station.  They circled the object and called for
a supervisor.  Captain Henry Stone, Security Police Law Enforcement, arrived
on scene but the object departed just as Captain Stone walked towards the
object.  The object flew off in an easterly direction and was out of sight
in a few seconds.  Office of Special Investigations agents arrived on scene
and conducted an investigation.  Statements were taken from all involved.
Evidence was collected from the scene, to include shell casings from the
rounds fired by Sgt Alexander.

This incident was classified as Top Secret and remained in the OSI files as
unsolved.

