 Police Officers Encounter UFO, Waynesville, Ohio 


On Tuesday, April 25, 2001, a very strange object is reported by civilians and law enforcement officers in the evening skies near Waynesville, Ohio in Warren County. From their residence near the 4600 Block of Wilkerson Road, a husband and wife are the first to report a circular lighted object hovering silently in the sky to the south of their location. The big light of the UFO, pulsating or changing in both color and brightness, was said to be encased within a structure that resembled gridwork or cabling. The couple advised the Lebanon City Police Department of the object around 10:15 p.m. and the Warren County Communications Center dispatched a Waynesville police officer to the location. 
Upon arrival at the scene, the Waynesville officer confirmed the unidentifiable nature of the object and also reported that a second UFO was also in the area. 
  
  
LOCAL: WHAT IS IT!

Unit #2W30: I have NO IDEA, and you wouldn't believe it if you came out and saw it! There's two of them, just sitting stationary and blinking, I mean about five different colors, right here on Wilkerson, just off of South Main Street... 
  
FEMALE OFFICER: This is 480-16 
  
Unit #2W30: I'm not kidding! Go ahead. 
  
FEMALE OFFICER: Okay, we're on the backside of that, here in the lot because I couldn't stand it no more. Where is it at, is it in the air? 
  
Unit #2W30: In the air! Okay? He's got the owner of the house has some binoculars and we're looking at these things and uh, it's just I don't know what they are! They're high up, they look like uh, they're up there but with our binoculars though, the ones he's got here, you can see them pretty clearly. There's probably five different colors, there's two of them and they've stayed in the exact same spot the whole time. They're not stars, I can tell you that.  

 
 
 
As other officers respond to the location and continue to view the abnormalities, dispatchers at the Warren County Communications Center telephone a base operator at Wright Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton/Fairborne, Ohio and also places a call to Airborne Express at the Wilmington Airport in Clinton County, Ohio. Both flight control facilities deny any knowledge of or responsibility for air traffic in the Waynesville, Ohio vicinity during the incident. 
  
While the Waynesville police officers view the object from Wilkerson Road looking south, a police dispatcher also observes the same object from her position at the Warren County Communications Center in Lebanon, Ohio, looking north toward Waynesville. From review of the police tapes, it can be estimated that the primary object may have been in a general location between Waynesville and Lebanon near the intersections of Pekin Road and Route 42. 
  
An officer with the Caesar's Creek State Police also notes the UFO from his location to the east of Waynesville. A third UFO is sighted in the area during the event, and the police witnesses repeatedly affirm a cogent distinction between the suspected UFOs and routine stars and airplanes. The objects move off by receding further into the distance as other officers from the Ohio State Patrol arrive on the scene. 
  
Dispatchers at the Ohio State Patrol and the Warren County Communications Center express frustration at having to handle this situation and their inability to address the reports and eyewitness confirmation from their officers. 
  
The next evening, Wednesday, April 25, UFOs are again reported in the same area at 9:48 p.m., viewed from Wilkerson Road and also by officers observing from a location near the Waynesville Airport. Disturbingly, another unusual object is seen in the area seven hours later and reportedly pursues a motorist near Genntown, Ohio (about 5-miles from Waynesville). A female complainant advises the Ohio State Patrol of her 'extreme concern' regarding a triangular object with "super bright lights" that pursued her automobile while traveling on Route 122 at 5:00 a.m., April 26. 
  
These and other details were acquired from eyewitness interviews, analysis of various police reports and evaluation of police tapes acquired through the Warren County Director of Emergency Services. Additional data was gathered through field investigation conducted on April 27th and April 28th. 
  
Consideration has been given to the possibility that this situation was engendered by a misperception of routine stars and planets by both civilians and police officers on both evenings. This theory was first advanced by Peter Davenport of the National UFO Reporting Center, who was advised of the incident by the Ohio State Patrol while the sighting was in progress. The star 'Sirius' was identified by Davenport as a likely candidate for misperception, but after sober review of the police tapes acquired from the Warren County Department of Emergency Services, this attempt at explanation is not looked upon favorably. 

source: Kenny Young, ufo@fuse.net
