The Mothman Legend
The Mothman sightings invoked as many explanations as sightings. The strange phenomena
that accompanied the first reports continued to the end. Many residents of the area of Point
Pleasant were victims of electrical problems and even apparitions, leading some to believe
that the whole phenomena was spiritual in nature.  It should be mentioned that animal and
cattle mutilation reports skyrocketed during the Mothman period, though no direct evidence
connected the Mothman to the reports.

Some of the theories put forth for the devilish bird were: 

He was the result of some type of demonic or cult ritual.  

He was formerly a crane who was subjected to a type of genetic altering due to 
secret chemicals used at the old TNT plant.

He was the manifestation of a 200 year old Shawnee Indian curse put on the area of Point Pleasant.

He was a type of secret government experiment, as reports of the infamous Men in Black
visiting witnesses were reported.

Those who laughed at these theories claimed that the sightings were nothing more than
misinformed reports of the sandhill crane, which did have reddish patches on its head, and did
get quite large. The area also had among its native wildlife other large species of birds, such as
an extremely large vulture found by some young boys in July 1967 in New Haven. Also
a local farmer shot and killed an Arctic snow owl with a wingspan of five feet.

Mothman was even blamed for a natural disaster that occurred on December 15, 1967.
The Silver Bridge, which crossed the Ohio River at Point Pleasant, collapsed during a 
heavy traffic period. Forty-six vehicles fell into the icy waters, and thirty-eight fatalities
were reported. Supposedly this marked the end of the Mothman sightings. Some have even
surmised that the majority of the Mothman population lived under the bridge and were killed
during the collapse. Only a couple of sightings were reported after the bridge disaster.

Everyone loves a mystery, and the Mothman is certainly one that will endure, just like other monster stories. It is human nature to 
perpetuate an exciting story, whether true or false. We must not forget however that a good number
of the sightings of the Mothman were made by reasonable, sane individuals who were genuinely
frightened, and stood to gain nothing by reporting what they saw. There is no doubt in my 
mind that at least SOME of the sightings are real.

We are left with a puzzling question. Scientists will tell you that there is NO known species of animal that matches the eye witness accounts of the Mothman.
If the scientific community is correct, then every eyewitness was either lying, having a hallucination, or simply mistook a native animal or bird as a monster.
This is extremely difficult to believe. Sane, responsible people know better. Give them some credit. There is a huge difference between a crane, and a 7-8 foot tall winged creature with red eyes that flies right at you, or follows your automobile at 100 hundred miles per hour, or takes off vertically like a helicopter. There is no crane that can do these things, but the Mothman can.

B J Booth
