1956, Navy Flight Encounters Gigantic UFO


It was early in 1959 when I learned of this hidden report - a startling
encounter with a UFO. The lead came in a brief message from Admiral
Delmar S. Fahrney, former Navy missile chief, whom I had known for years.

"Captain James Taylor, USN, Rte., has an important UFO sighting made by a
naval pilot and his crew. Call him at Spacetronics, Inc., in Washington,
District 7-9481."

That night, when Captain Taylor gave me this dramatic Navy report, I could
see why it had never been released to the public. Later, Admiral Fahrney
and I met at the Army-Navy Club and discussed the details. Fahrney knew,
as well as I did, of other hidden UFO cases - some of them highly
significant. But this one stood out in importance.

It had happened in 1956. Cruising at 19,000 feet, a Navy R7V-2 transport - 
a four-engine Super-Constellation - was flying west across the Atlantic
Ocean. The next stop was Gander, Newfoundland. Final destination, Naval
Air Station, Patuxent, Maryland.

The night was clear, visibility unlimited. In the senior pilot's seat,
Commander George Benton was checking the dim-lit instruments. At thirty-four,
Benton had a decade of Navy flying behind him. He had made the Atlantic
crossing more than two hundred times. Back in the cabin were two extra
Navy air crews, en route home from foreign duty. Most of these men were
asleep. Including Benton's regular and relief crews, there were nearly
30 airmen-pilots, navigators and flight engineers aboard the Constellation.

As Commander Benton finished his cockpit check, he glanced out at the stars.
Then he leaned forward, puzzled. A few minutes before, the sea below had
been dark. Now there was a cluster of lights, like a village, about
twenty-five miles ahead.

Benton looked over at his co-pilot, Lieutenant Peter W. Mooney. "What do
you make of those lights?" Mooney peered down, startled.

"Looks like a small town!"

"That's what I thought." Benton quickly called the navigator, Lieutenant
Alfred C. Erdman. "We must be way off course. There's land down there."
"It can't be land." Erdman hurried forward from his map table. "That last
star sight shows..." He broke off, staring down at the clustered lights.
"Well?" said Benton. "They must be ships," said Erdman. "Maybe a rendezvous
for some special operation."


Giant Flying Saucers

"They don't look like ships," said Benton. He called Radioman John Wiggins.
No word of any unusual ship movements, Wiggins reported. And no signals from
the location of the lights. If they were ships, they were keeping radio
silence. "Wake up those other crews," Benton told Erdman. "Maybe somebody
can dope it out." In a few moments, two or three airmen crowded into the
cockpit. Benton cut off the automatic pilot, banked to give them and the men
in the cabin a better view.

As the transport began to circle, the strange lights abruptly dimmed. Then
several colored rings appeared, began to spread out. One, Benton noticed,
seemed to be growing in size. Behind him, someone gave an exclamation.
Benton took another look. That luminous ring wasn't on the surface - it
was something rushing up toward the transport.

"What the devil is it?" said Mooney. "Don't know," muttered Benton. He
rolled the Constellation out of its turn to start a full-power climb. Then
he saw it was useless. The luminous ring could catch them in seconds.

The glow, he now saw, came from the rim of some large, round object. It
reached their altitude, swiftly took shape as a giant disc-shaped machine.

Dwarfing the Constellation, it raced in toward them. "It's going to hit us!"
said Erdman. Benton had known normal fear, but this was nightmare. Numbed,
he waited for the crash.

Suddenly the giant disc tilted. Its speed sharply reduced, it angled on past
the port wing. The commander let out his breath. He looked at Mooney's white
face, saw the others' stunned expressions. Watching out the port window, he
cautiously started to bank. He stopped as he saw the disc.

It had swung around, was drawing abreast, pacing them at about one hundred
yards. For a moment he had a clear glimpse of the monster. Its sheer bulk
was amazing; its diameter was three to four times the Constellation's wing
span. At least thirty feet thick at the center, it was like a gigantic dish
inverted on top of another. Seen at this distance, the glow along the rim
was blurred and uneven. Whether it was an electrical effect, a series of
jet exhausts or lights from opening in the rim, Benton could not tell. But
the glow was bright enough to show the disc's curving surface, giving a hint
of dully reflecting metal.

Though Benton saw no signs of life, he had a feeling they were being observed.
Fighting an impulse to dive away, he held to a straight course. Gradually, the
strange machine pulled ahead. Tilting its massive shape upward, it quickly
accelerated and was lost against the stars.

Commander Benton reached for his microphone, called Gander Airport and
identified himself. "You show any other traffic out here?" he asked the
tower. "We had something on the scope near you," Gander told him. "But we
couldn't get an answer."

"We saw it," Benton said grimly. "It was no aircraft." He gave the tower
a concise report, and back at Gander teletype messages were rushed to the
U.S. Air Defense Command, the Commanding Officer, Eastern Sea Frontier, the
Director of Air Force Intelligence and the Air Technical Intelligence Center.

When the Constellation landed at Gander, Air Force intelligence officers met
the transport. From the start, it was plain they accepted the giant disc
sighting as fact. For two hours, Benton and the rest were carefully
interrogated[debriefed], separately and together: How close did the object
come? What was its size... estimated rate of climb... any electrical
interference noted... what happened to the other luminous rings?

From the answers to scores of questions, the majority opinion emerged. The
flying disc was between 350 and 400 feet in diameter, and apparently metallic.
No interference with ignition noted; instruments not observed and radio not
operating during this brief period. Time for the giant disc to climb to the
transport's altitude, between five and eight seconds, indicated speed between
1,400 and 2,200 knots; the disc had accelerated above this speed on departure.

Not all the men in the cabin had seen the luminous rings. Of those who had,
most were watching the huge disc approach and did not see the "rings"
disappear. If they, too, were flying discs, in a rendezvous as some
suggested, they apparently had raced off while the other one was checking
on the Constellation.

At one point, an Intelligence captain asked Benton if he had seen any
indication of life abroad the disc.


Intelligently Controlled

"No, but it was intelligently controlled, that's certain. Benton looked at
him closely. "That size, it would hardly be remote-controlled, would it?"
"I couldn't say," replied the Air Force man. Nor would he tell what the
Gander Airport radar had shown about the disc's speed and maneuvers.
"What's behind all this?" demanded Mooney. "Up to now, I believed the
Air Force. You people say there aren't any flying saucer..."

"Sorry, I can't answer any questions," said the captain. "Why 
not? After a scare like that, we've got a right to know what's 
going on." The Intelligence officer shook his head. "I can't 
answer any questions," he repeated.

As quickly as possible, intelligence reports with full details were flashed
to the four Defense commanders already notified, with an extra message for
the Director of Naval Intelligence. After the Constellation reached
Patuxent, the air crews were interviewed [debriefed] again, by Navy order.
Each man made a written report, with his opinion of what he had seen.

Five days later, Commander Benton had a phone call from a scientist in a
high government agency. "I'm informed you had a close-up UFO sighting.
I'd like to see you."

Benton checked, found the man was cleared by the Navy. Next day, the
scientist appeared, showed his credential, listened intently to Benton's
report. Then he unlocked a dispatch case and took out some photographs.

"Was it like any of these?" At the third picture, Benton stopped him.
"That's it!" He looked sharply at the scientist. "Somebody must know
the answers, if you've got photographs of the things." The other man
took the pictures. "I'm sorry, Commander." He closed his dispatch
case and left.

At the time when I (Donald Keyhoe) learned of this case, I had served
for two years as Director of the National Investigations Committee on
Aerial Phenomena.

source:
Flying Saucer Review, Volume 49/2, Summer 2004, pp. 21-23
From the NICAP records, by Major Donald E. Keyhoe
