 Mexican Military Officials Release Video of UFOs




SOURCE: EFE News Agency. DATE: Tuesday, May 11, 2004 7:20 AM
MEXICO (EFE) -- In an unprecedented move for this country--and perhaps the
whole world-- military authorities have made public a video showing 11
unidentified flying objects (UFOs) captured by an aircraft belonging to the
Secretariat of National Defense (SEDENA). This video shall be presented
today by journalist and UFO researcher Jaime Maussan.

In an exclusive interview with the La Prensa newspaper, Maussan stated that
the Secretary of National Defense himself, Ricardo Clemente Vega Garcia,
authorized the broadcast of this material to both domestic and foreign news
media.

According to the researcher, the encounter occurred on March 5, when an
aircraft belonging to the Mexican Air Force, a Merlin C26/A, was engaged in
drug interdiction patrols. At around 17:00 hours it detected the presence of
11 objects following it.

The routine flight took place between Copalar, Chiapas and the State of
Campeche. The encounter took place near Ciudad del Carmen, Campeche. It was
there that the aircraft, belonging to the 501st Air Squadron was performing
its routine patrol when it suddenly detected the presence of an object on
its radar at an elevation of 3500 meters, as well as through its infrared
equipment (FLIR).

The airplane immediately pursued the object, which according to the video
footage, lost itself in the clouds. Minutes later, the presence of other
objects -- for a total of 11 -- was detected. They followed the aircraft and
surrounded it.

These UFOs were captured on radar and by the FLIR gear. However, they were
never seen by the aircrew despite having been two miles distant from the
aircraft at one point. The crew consisted of eight monitoring specialists,
among them the pilot, Maj. Magdaleno Castañón Muñoz, radar operator Lt.
Germán Martin Ramirez and FLIR operator Mario Adrian Vázquez Tellez. These
military men were interviewed and claimed having never seen a similar
phenomenon, since the speed and movements detected by radar confirmed the
fact that the [objects] were not aircraft.

Translation (C) 2004.Scott Corrales,  Institute of Hispanic Ufology (IHU).
