Navy Officer Has UFO 'Close Encounter' along Secluded CA Highway



An off duty Navy petty officer second class had just gotten off duty at California's then Naval Air Station Miramar when his vehicle suddenly shut off along a dark and secluded piece of Interstate 15.

As the man retrieved a gas can from his trunk for what could be a long walk into nearby Kearny Mesa - he hears an unusual sound - "a release of air" - that draws his attention into the darkness on the other side of the four-lane highway. He sees "an object of some type that is long, low and extremely streamlined and silohutted." The year is 1971.

Following is his original account of the incident. Only minor editing changes were completed.

Original report

In 1971, I had a close encounter that was later explained to me was a "Close Encounter of The Second Kind". My understanding is that a sighting in the sky is an encounter of the first kind, an encounter where the craft has touched down within close range is the second kind and an encounter where there is physical contact is the third kind, such as the movie years ago.

Many years prior to the movie, I was on my way home after getting off duty from the Naval Station at Miramar, which is now a Marine Corp Air Station, in San Diego. The year is 1971, it is about 3:00 a.m. there is no traffic and I am headed down interstate 15 and my car is running on gas fumes.

About 5 miles from my destination, the vehicle suddenly shuts off and I coast over to the side of the road. I am thinking I am out of gas and would have to walk the rest of the way into the next surburb of Kearny Mesa. I get out of the car and there is no traffic and it is very dark with only a little moonlight. I get a 5 gallon red military issue gas can out of the trunk and stand there trying to figure out what to do. I was flat broke and it was still a week before payday.

As I look North and South on the Interstate, not a soul can be seen.

A craft silently lands

Still looking South as I stand there by the driver side of the door, I hear a release of air as if it is coming from a high pressure nozzle,  and I hear gravel crunching like something heavy is pressing it down. I look across the Interstate which in 1971 was only four lanes and see an object of some type that is long, low and extremely streamlined and silohutted.

I keep looking because I was wondering how something could be there when it was not there when I got out of the car and as dark as it was, I never saw any lights or heard any other car engines. At this time, I was still thinking I was looking at an extremely long car kind of like a limousine, but it was much longer. There was total silence and no movement from the vehicle or on the Interstate.

Panic took over when I saw that the vehicle was sitting flush on the ground and their were no tires, plus, I could see that it had opaque silver type windows that were paneled, but no other things like door handles or anything that could make it a car. My mind starting putting together the fact that this was no car and the noise I heard earlier was the craft settling down about 40 yards across the Interstate from me. I was scared to death at this point,  and jumped into the car. The only thing I could think of was getting out of there before something came out of the craft.

Even though I thought the car would not start, I turned the key and it started and I put it into gear and took off.

When I got home, my family got scared because I was in tears and really scared. They had never seen me in this shape before and it frightened them. I told them what I had seen and they believed me, because they knew I was too terrified to make it up.

Return to the scene

The following morning, I went to my neighbor's house and asked him to go back with me. We tried the car, but it would not start, it was out of gas. We borrowed money from other neighbors and went back to where the incident occurred. We only saw a slight indentation in the gravel where something had been.

I was traumatized by the event and had trouble sleeping for a long time after that. I still cannot sleep with my back to a door. When it first happened, I was so shook up, that I talked to doctors who recommended that I undergo hypnosis to digress to the night of the incident. They kept asking me exactly how long was I there that night and to me it only seemed like a few minutes from start to finish. Others say that I could have been there longer and just do not know it and may have seen more than what I thought.

I never underwent the hypnosis, because I do not want to know anymore than what I already know. I know what I saw that night and it will haunt me the rest of my life.

Blemish appears on lower calf

Later that year, a blemish appeared on the left inside of my lower calf above the ankle. It is about the size of a dime and it has never gone away. Right in the center is a little black dot surrounded by a lighter tan circle. I thought it was some type of skin cancer and went in for a check up, the doctors say no, they have no idea what it is other than a blemish and not to be concerned. Well, I am concerned because I do not know really how long I was there and what happened from the time I stopped to the time I left. I could be from the encounter, but I have no idea.

I have seen objects from time to time since then, but they have been in the sky and usually others report them. I have not ever had another close encounter and really do not want to.

Thanks for listening, it is good to vent that story from time to time. I just look forward to the day when all of us can be validated when a sighting beyond comparison will take place and it cannot be disputed.

Additional description

The craft was a grayish type color and very smooth in appearance. The shape was very aerodynamic with the length being about 18-20 ft. The height was about 6ft. from the bottom of the craft to the top of the slightly dome-shaped top in the center of the craft. There was also what looked like some type of windows or pane devices that were very dark, like a really dark tint on a car or presidential vehicle, but it was not glass, it was some other type of alloy. Although the vehicle looked really light in weight, it had to be heavy,  because it made the gravel crunch as it settled on the shoulder on the side of the roadway. I was standing by the 1968 Plymouth Fury, light blue, on the southside of the interstate, looking across the interstate to the east, that is the direction I heard the escaping rush of air and heard the gravel crunching. UCSD has an observatory of some type now in the area near the sighting. At the time I was there in 1971, a red & white checkered water tank was in the field close by the interstate.

