1952 - UFOs Drop Angel Hair - Oloron, France

Published: 11:23 AM 3/2/2008

Oloron, France, October, 1952

There have been many reports of falls of angel hair around the world. The most reported incidence occurred in Oloron, France, in 1952. Many witnesses reported seeing over 30 red, spherical UFOs flying overhead, along with what local school superintendent Jean-Yves Prigent described as "a narrow cylinder, apparently inclined at a 45-degree angle... slowly moving in a straight line toward the southwest... A sort of plume of white smoke was escaping from its upper end." From these craft came a white, hairlike substance, which covered telephone wires, tree branches and the roofs. When people rolled the hairs into into a ball, it turned into a gelatinous substance and vanished. One man claimed to have been trapped by the material. On freeing himself, it rose back into air.


Ten days later, these events were repeated in Gaillac, also in France. 

More Angel Hair Occurrences

On October 27, 1954, Gennaro Lucetti and Pietro Lastrucci stood on the balcony of a hotel in St. Mark's Square in Venice and saw two "shining spindles" flying across the sky leaving a trail of the angel hair. 

In the Portuguese city of Évora in November 2, 1959, two disc-shaped objects were seen over the town, and angel hair was collected and analyzed by microscope by a local school director, and later by armed forces technicians and scientists of the University of Lisbon. Conclusions were not possible although it was formed, apparently, by a small organism featuring 10 'arms' stretching from a central core. It was advanced that it could be a single-celled organism of some kind.

A fall of angel hair in Florida in 1957 was witnessed by Craig Philips (later director of America's national aquarium), who collected samples. however, these disappeared before he could reach a laboratory.

On February 10, 1978, a large number of fibers fell from the sky for a period of two hours near Samaru, New Zealand.
