The 1976 The Tehran, Iran UFO - F-4 Incident
UFO Depiction
Published: 10:27 AM 2/01/2005
An extremely compelling case of an invading UFO occurred in Tehran, Iran in September of 1976. On the 19th, the Air Force of Iran began receiving calls from local citizens reporting an unusual, unidentifiable object in the skies.

The Air Force duty officer called the Assistant Deputy Commnder of Operations informing him of the situation, and asking for guidance in how to handle the situation. He knew there were no planes flying at the time that could account for the strange reports.

At first Yousefit thought the edgy citizens were seeing just stars or the planet Venus, but after even more inquiries, he decided to look for himself.

As he checked out the unknown object, he knew immediately that it was no star. It was much larger and brighter. He made the decision to scramble an F-4 jet from Shahrokhi Air Force Base to get a closer look at the unusual object. The plane left the runway at approximately 1:30 AM to intercept the UFO.

The plane sped toward the large, bright unknown which lay some 70 miles north of them. About half-way there, the plane began to experience communication problems.

Instrumentation was also faulty, so the pilot dropped off course, heading back to Shahrokhi. As the F-4 changed course, instrumentation and communication was suddenly restored.

Had the UFO compromised the plane's functions as it approached, and then allowed them again as the plane dropped from its course?

Another F-4 left the air base, attempting to identify the UFO. As the second jet approached the UFO, they made radar contact. Crew members stated that the size of the radar return was similar to that of a 707 jet. The actual size of the object was impossible to determine visually because of the brilliance of the glowing object.

The jet drew nearer to the UFO.

For a time, the F-4 bridged the distance between itself and the UFO, but even flying above Mach 1, the UFO suddenly shot away from the F-4. This incredible burst of speed was confirmed by the plane's radar and also visually.

The pilot of the F-4 was not able to gain any ground on the UFO, but managed to pace it as they sped through the skies.

The crew of the plane would later say that the UFO had strobing lights arranged rectangularly. The lights alternated from red, blue, green, and orange in color. The plane's crew was astonished to see another, smaller object emerge from the large UFO. The plane and UFO were now flying south of Tehran.

The smaller object made a bee-line to the F-4 moving at incredible speeds.

Fearing for their very lives, the pilot aimed an AIM-9 missie at the approaching object, but just as he did, the weapons control panel went off line, and he lost all communication. The only course of action left was to dive to try to avoid a collision with the approaching UFO or weapon.

The approaching object followed the plane into its dive briefly, but then tailed off, and returned to the larger UFO. All functions were again on line as the UFO left the jet behind.

There was never an explanation for what two F-4 jets chased over the skies of Tehran.

The crew members stated that the UFO moved at incredible speeds and had the ability to disable the plane's instrumentation. This is one of the best documented UFO / Plane chases on record.

(written by B J Booth)
