 1965, Sherman, Texas-UFO Sighting with Photograph


Robert Campbell, Patrolman Peter McCollum, Sherman TX;  Aug 2, 1965. 3 AM: "... a glowing UFO hovered near Sherman, TX. Broadcasting stations, police, and other agencies had been flooded with reports for hours. Television cameraman Robert Campbell was out with Patrolman Peter McCollum, interviewing witnesses and watching the objects for themselves. Campbell took a still picture of the hovering UFO[footnote 1] - a two minute time exposure while he and the police officer watched the thing. The picture was overexposed, possibly due to the brilliance of the UFO..."[footnote 2] 
  

"... I investigated 'on-location' at Sherman, TX... was photographed by television newsman Bob Campbell... He had been monitoring police calls on his radio and he left his home at 3:00 AM, armed with a 4x5 Speed Graphic and Tri-X film, to photograph the strange light he had heard reported on the police radio... "[footnote 3] 
  

"Shortly after midnight a news photographer for a local television station, heard on his short wave radio, two police highway patrols discuss reports of an UFO tracked on radar and streaking towards the Texas border. 

"The photographer took his 4x5 Speed Graphic camera and drove into town, where he met the Chief of Police. Together the two men searched for the object, and soon sighted it hanging stationary thirteen miles east of Sherman, on Highway 82. 

"Its outline was clearly defined in the north-eastern sky, and the photographer set up his camera. He took four exposures, two minutes each at three-minute intervals. The negatives have been carefully examined by Air Force scientific advisers and by astronomical experts. No acceptable explanation has been found for the object recorded on the negatives. It must be considered a UFO."[footnote 4] 
 

"The remarkable aspect of this particular incident is that, having been alerted by the same radio broadcast, several other individuals were also watching the object. Campbell and McCollum were one mile east of Bells, OK. Highway patrolman Bill Quires was watching from Durant, 30 mi north of Bells, and Department of Public Safety Dispatcher Jim Faglia was watching from a point seven miles south of Sherman, thus precluding the possibility that the object could have been a planet or a star."[footnote 5] 

The object's shape was a cylinder with "Mercury capsule" shape at one end, possibly rounded at other end. Several distinct bands around diameter of cylinder, with disc shaped "bosses" on surface. Bands of luminosity. An extrusion of luminosity from one band, and an ejection of an unknown material accompanied the object. 
 
Footnotes: 
1. Actually, there are at least 2 photos. 
  

2. Flying Saucers: Serious Business, Edwards, Bantam paperback, 1966, p 165 

3. The UFO Experience, Hynek, ISBN 0-345-27361-3 

4. Source: "Flying Saucers on the Attack"...Harold T.Wilkins. pg.317; thanks to Victor Kean; identical to that in Vallee, Challenge To Science, ISBN 0-345-27086-X, p 54 

5. Lorenzen, Flying Saucers, Signet 1966, p 240 

Source: http://www.temporaldoorway.com/ufo/report/650802.htm
