Fighter jet observed chasing a triangular craft in central Oklahoma


 Date: Mon, 30 May 2005 15:04:30 -0500-

Occurred : 5/27/2005 23:30 (Entered as : 05/27/2005 23:30)
Reported: 5/27/2005 10:37:42 PM 22:37, Posted: 5/28/2005
Location: Noble, OK-Shape: Triangle-Duration:4 minutes    


I am a competent, educated scientist of sound mind and character. I have
never reported anything like this before. 

At 23:30 on 5/27/05 while taking my nightly walk, I obsereved a triangluar
craft (craft) traversing the sky from north to south at about 20K feet. The
sky is very clear this night with several miles of clear visibility. 

The craft's speed was about 500 knots. The craft was perfectly silent and
moving rapidly. Several miles behind the craft was what appeared to be a
fighter jet moving very rapidly, 600 to 700 knots. As the jet was chasing
the craft they both where flying toward my position. I could begin to hear
the engines of the jet at that time. 

It appeared as thought the triangular craft was toying with the jet in that
as the jet got closer to the craft, the craft would speed up somewhat and
leave the jet behind. As the craft and jet got nearly directly over my
location, the triangular craft made a sharp right hand turn the the west.
The jet was unable to make the turn at the same angle as the craft. The
jet's turn was much more pronounced and made a much wider loop. 

Due to that, the jet lost quite a bit of ground on the craft during the
turn, yet again as both craft began traverseing in a straight line toward
the west-nortwest the craft again appeared to toy with the pursuing jet in
the same manner aforementioned. 

After a few seconds it appeared that the craft accelerated dramaticaly and
left the jet behind. I observed the jet make one tight loop several miles
from my position and then turn off to the north-northeast and flew out of my
line of sight. 

One thing that was odd about the triangular craft was the three lights
making up the trianglar pattern were not equal in distance. Referencing the
wingspan of the jet, two of the lights on the craft were about 50 to 75 feet
apart and the third light was approximately 100 to 150 feet from the other
two lights. 

Additionally, the two lights closer together were at the front and the other
further away light was at the rear facing the pursuing jet. This made the
craft to appear to be moving in reverse. 

It should be noted, that the color of the triangular craft lights were an
unusual milky white color, nothing like that of the very bright red, green
and white lights observed on the jet. 

Tinker Air Force Base, which does have fighters, is located about 25 miles
east of my house. 

I assure you that this is a true account of what I observed on the stated
date and time.


NUFORC Note: We spoke with this witness via telephone on two occasions,
and we found him to be quite objective in his description of the alleged
sighting, and very well organized in his description of what it was he
apparently witnessed. 

We have invited him to contact media and law enforcement offices, to inquire
whether anyone else might have been witness to the event. Also, he will
contact the FAA ARTCC in Oklahoma City, to inquire whether the controllers
on duty Friday night, May 27, might know what the cause of the incident was.


We have to allow for the possibility that the object apparently being
pursued by what may have been a military fighter jet may have been an F-22
"Raptor" fighter on a test flight, but even that aircraft would have to have
displayed conventional red and green marker lights on its wing tips. 

The witness will submit an illustration of what the lights on the object
looked like to him, as he viewed it from the ground. 

If any visitors to the NUFORC site were witness to this event over Oklahoma,
we would request that they submit a short report of what they saw, using the
Online Report Form on our website. 

We invite visitors to our site to compare this report with the report
submitted from Kirkland, Washington, (located just east of Seattle)
regarding an alleged sighting of a bizarre-looking, triangular craft at
00:18 hrs. (Pacific) on Friday, May 13, 2005. 

Peter Davenport    


source & references:
From: "Skywatch International" 
National UFO Reporting Center, Sighting Report 
