Patrol Car Illuminated by UFO, Damon, Texas, 1965
The Damon, Texas sighting took a second seat to the more celebrated  Exeter, New Hampshire case  which occurred on the same date... I could find no other UFO reports on this date of any note. Could the unknown objects which were seen earlier on the same day in New Hampshire have flown southwesterly down the Eastern coast of the United States, and moved over the Texas town of Damon?

After a few seconds, with the strange object hovering almost directly overhead, they fled the scene and headed toward Damon "as fast as we could go," making speeds of up to 110 miles per hour. McCoy kept watching the object out the rear window of the car. For 10 to 15 seconds, the UFO continued to hover above the pasture. Then it abruptly shot back in the direction from which it had come. "After arriving at approximately its original position," McCoy reported, "it went straight up in the air and disappeared at 25-30 degrees above the horizon." 

Back at Damon, the shaken officers calmed themselves, and then decided to go back and investigate again. This time they drove down the Damon-West Columbia road, but saw nothing. Finally they returned to the area where they had first seen the lights, and once again spied the purple light on the horizon, and again saw the smaller blue light emerge with a strange two-step motion and float upward. Fearing another close encounter, they again fled the area. 

Goode and McCoy continued on their shift until three or four in the morning, then stopped for breakfast at a cafe. Goode noted that his alligator bite was no longer sore, and when he unwrapped the bandage he discovered that the swelling had gone down and that the wound was nearly healed. Next day, the wound showed virtually no scarring. 

The deputies reported the sighting to Ellington Air Force Base, and Major Laurence Leach, Jr., arrived on September 8, 1965, to interview McCoy and Goode and take a statement. Leach's report to Project Blue Book headquarters at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base reflected his puzzlement. "There is no doubt in my mind," he said, "that they definitely saw some unusual object or phenomenon... Both officers appeared to be intelligent, mature, level-headed persons capable of sound judgment and reasoning." 

US Air Force put this case in the "unknown" category. 
written by B J Booth
Also See:  True Article on Damon, Texas Sightings
sources:
Air Force unidentified case, Project Blue Book files, National Archives. 

McCoy statement, Brazoria County Sheriff's Department, September 8, 1965. 
"Ellington [AFB] Probes UFO Seen by Local Deputies", Brazosport Facts, September 6, 1965. 
"The Night of the UFO", Brazosport Facts, Rhonda Moran, September 13, 1995. 
"The TRUE Report On Flying Saucers", TRUE magazine, 1967. 
