 Corydon, Indiana Video Film, August 23, 1987


COMMENTS, INTERROGATING FI 


An official at Evansville-Regional Airport Control Tower was contacted on 24 August 1987. He was unable to shed any light on the object's cause or source. To his knowledge there is no known navigation light such as the orange lights being observed. However, an orange light could be produced by headlights at a distance as a result of air pollution, provided the object/headlights are approaching the witnesses. The absence of a green forward position light is suspect and the red position light should have been on the craft's "left wing". When the object was heading East, the steady red light was in the lead, which is not consistent with FAA regulations. There was an absence of a steady rear white position light. There is a possibility that the red light was not attached, but it "appears" to fly in a fixed position. That position changed several times, however, indicating some rotation.

I personally observed this object from the very beginning. Its color, intensity and movements made it very suspect as a "normal source". Immediately eliminating any "natural source" I also find it difficult to place in a "manmade source" category, unless proper FAA lighting was not adhered to. This activity was observed near an airport and a moderately-sized city (Louisville, KY) where position lights and a see-and-be-seen situation is more of a life & death situation than other areas. There were no flashing red or white beacons or anti-collision lights at all, no belly strobes, and no steady white rear position light. 

There was no red light in a left wing position. If the "aircraft" were heading toward us and gliding to our left at the same time, the red should have been on the right or west side of the object. If going away from us, the red to the left would have been OK, except that the headlight (if that's what the orange light was} would have been pointing away from us. 

This was not a refueling operation. Not only do these not take place in areas close to airports, they are conducted at high-altitude, and the lights used are brilliant white. 

This was probably not any kind of helicopter for the same reasons mentioned previously. Mandatory position and anti -collision lights were absent. 

Position lights should be easy to see and the red one was very dim in comparison. If the object was further than we thought (the red light being so small that it could be seen only with binoculars), then the bright orange light was not only a dangerous distraction but much larger than it appeared. The actual "apparent diameter" of the orange verses the red appears to be about 6-to-1 on the observed video segment. However, the ratio could be much higher. The volume or intensity was about 200-to-l. 

The image on the videotape appears to be flatter than just. a ball of light. Because of the resolution of the camera it also does not show any color, but merely looks whitish. The red light appears duller, but the red does not appear. This resolution problem is not unusual for such a small target. 

MUFON Form 8, Photographic Evidence, was completed and submitted by the camcorder operator and State-Section Director/FIT Scott Wilkerson. Preliminary data provided indicates the object was "filmed" at 6x magnification on the zoom mode. We believe that the normal mode would have not resolved the red object. 

It is our opinion that the object is unidentified. NATURAL SOURCES have been completely ruled out. Of the MANMADE SOURCES, Balloons, Fixed Structures, Hoax, Missiles, Satellites were immediately ruled out. This leaves the remote possibility of aircraft, of course, but as witnesses (8 MUFON people, 5 qualified observers) and for reasons specified in the report, we are not convinced that this was any type of aircraft. Absent was the damning anomalistic motion or the over flight with total absence of sound. If the aircraft and the unidentified object were at approximately the same distance, the object would have been traveling at about half the speed of the aircraft, which may have been under stall speed.

FINAL REPORT BY FI/STATE DIRECTOR

August 13, 1990

The long-awaited computer analysis recently conducted by our new scientist/member David Cook, was received on August 4th, 1990, and is now part of this report. The object is considered unidentified, borderline significance. 

source:
Francis Ridge, State Director, Field Investigator, MUFON Indiana
http://www.nicap.org/870823dir.htm
