The Carp, Canada Case (The Guardian) Part 1


 The Carp Case - The MUFON Ontario Version - Part 1.
(Credits:  March, May & July 1994 issues of "THE MUFON ONTARIO NEWSLETTER")

 Tom Theofanous was an investigator with CUFORN,  in  Toronto,  from
1987 to 1992. He and his wife, Lise, have been with MUFON  Ontario
since then. Tom is now Deputy Director of MUFON Ontario, in Toronto.
This case has had much coverage in the media. Tabloid television
shows like 'Unsolved Mysteries', 'Sightings' and 'Encounters' have
given it much  air-time, as have cable-tv stations all over North
America. Internationally,  magazines  newspapers  and  news-letters   have
devoted  hundreds of pages to it and UFO conferences around the  planet
have  intrigued  many  thousands  of  attendees  with  it's   seemingly
startling details.   'Carp'  has  achieved 'One Of The Most Significant  Cases  In  UFO
History'  status. You've  probably heard,  seen and  read  about  it
yourself.

 In  this  and succeeding issues we'll deal with the FACTS  of  the
case. We'll  describe the events,  as  told by the media and as we've
experienced them - and we'll try not appear too judgemental.


Beginnings - 1989

     Tom  Theofanous,  working with The Canadian UFO  Research  Network
(CUFORN),   received   a  package  from  someone   calling   themselves
'Guardian'.   It had no return address.

     "The  package contained a story about a UFO crash that  supposedly
happened close to Carlton Place,  which is about a half-hour drive from
Ottawa",  Tom  said.    "There  was also a photo-copied picture  of  an
Alien."

     "For  the  most part,  we thought it was  a  joke.    But,  CUFORN
director Harry Tokarz decided to call Arthur Bray, a well-respected UFO
author  and  researcher  who lives in Ottawa,  and ask him  if  he  had
someone in the Carlton area who could check out the story for us.    As
luck  would  have it,  Arthur knew a fellow who was fascinated  by  the
field of ufology, Graham Lightfoot."


 Graham,  with  what was to become typical thoroughness,  used  the
somewhat  sketchy  co-ordinates  he got from Arthur Bray  to  not  only
pinpoint  the 'UFO crash-site' near Manion Corners,  but also locate  a
number of witnesses.


     One of those witnesses,  Diane Labanek,  claimed that on the night
of November 4th 1989,  she saw an intense,  bright light pass overhead,
heading towards a swamp at the far end of the field behind and south of
her  home.  She  said  she also saw several  helicopters  earlier  that
evening using bright lights to scan the area.

     Another  West Carlton resident recalled that that was the  weekend
when  some cattle escaped from a nearby pasture and that it  took  till
late Sunday to round them up.

     A couple told Graham about the wife being scared by a very  bright
light shone through their south-facing bathroom window.    "It  reached
right  down our hallway!".   The wife also mentioned that  she  vaguely
remembered hearing the sound of helicopters at the time.

     Others talked of "dogs and cattle being disturbed".

     Many  people could think of absolutely nothing  unusual  happening
during  the  course  of  the weekend,  including a  couple  who  had  a
telescope set-up.

     Graham  reported those findings to CUFORN,  along with results  of
his  examination of the field and swamp behind Labanek's home  -  there
were  no signs on the ground,  anywhere,  of the heavy  equipment  that
would be needed to recover a 'crashed craft'.




     His report closed with,  "although I could find nothing conclusive
to support or disprove any of the witnesses claims.  I shall check back
around the area later this summer."

     The  same  Guardian  material  had  been  sent  to  several  other
investigators, researchers and UFO groups and as the story spread, both
the  former Provincial Director of MUFON Ontario Clive Nadin,  and  the
current  Quebec Director Christian Page,  visited the area on  separate
occasions,  and  spoke  to the 'witnesses'.    They  confirmed  Graham
Lightfoot's initial findings and agreed with Tom & Harry at CUFORN that
someone was "trying to put us on - a hoax!"



Guardian re-surfaces - 1991
     In the middle of October 1991 CUFORN began receiving more Guardian
'information' via the mail and all postmarked 'Ottawa'.

     An  envelope  with  some documents  that  mention  a  'conspiracy'
between  the Chinese and  'Grey Aliens that are planning to  take  over
the world', arrived first.   Then came a Polaroid photograph of a 'UFO'
flying across an unidentified road.  A while later came a black & white
picture of a grey-type 'Alien'.

     The  fourth delivery in the series was a package.    It  contained
the  now  infamous VHS video tape with a green label on  the  cassette,
with a thumb print and the word GUARDIAN printed on the label.

     There were also three playing cards in the package,  all with hand
written notes on them - an Ace, King and Joker.

     A  photo-copied map showed the 'Grey's landing area',  along  with
notes  explaining  that the flares in the video were used to  help  the
UFO,  which  can out maneuver anything on the planet,  fly  under  the
radar and know where to land!

     There   were  also  'Canadian  Department  of   National   Defense
documents'  enclosed - which,  upon later investigation,  proved to  be
forgeries.


     These 'documents',  it is thought,  were designed to look like the
official documents on UFOs that Canadian UFO author/researcher  Stanton
Friedman  acquired,  via  'The Freedom of Information  Act',  from  the
United States Government.

     The  video - a few minutes long - showed two different  angles  of
what Guardian alleges was an 'alien craft', on the ground.

     First,  a long shot of bright lights clumped together to the right
of  the  scene and what looked like four red emergency road  flares  or
fires in barrels on the left side of the screen.

     The  second  scene  showed the same clump of  bright  lights  from
approximately  the  same distance but more to the  centre  without  any
flares and the sound of a single dog barking in the distance.

     The third scene was only three frames long and was a close-up of a
a pair of wipers half-way across a very Earth-bound vehicle!

     CUFORN pondered what to do with all the Guardian information  that
arrived  in October of '91 and decided,  that in view of the  season  -
winter,  that  they  would hold off visiting Carlton  until  after  the
spring run-off.

Enter Oechsler
     At the beginning of March '92, Bob Oechsler (pronounced Bob Ex-ler)
an American MUFON investigator - who describes himself a  'former  NASA
mission specialist'  - called CUFORN from his home in Maryland.

     Apparently,  he  too  had  received a  video  and  documents  from
Guardian,  although when comparisons of the two videos were  discussed,
his had an additional scene - a somewhat closer one minute shot of  the
'alien craft'.

     His version also had a couple of minutes worth of the  windshield,
plus several still shots of the 'Grey Aliens'.

     The most important difference,  however,  was that his version  of
the  tape  had no audio-track at all - "it seems it  was  intentionally
removed", says Tom Theofanous.

     Oechsler had shown the tape to Bruce Macabbee and they agreed  that
what they saw was a UFO and should be investigated further - and that's
why  Oechsler  called Tom at CUFORN.   They agreed they would  meet  in
Carlton, Ontario on May 10th 1992.

     Tom  then called and spoke with Graham Lightfoot,  for  the  first
time, and Graham agreed to act as guide for the May meeting.

     It  transpired  that  Graham worked for The O.F.A  -  The  Ontario
Federation  of Agriculture - and knew the Carlton area and its  farmers
well.       

The First Visit  
     On  May  10th,  Mother's  Day,  1991,  Torontonians,  Tom  &  Lise
Theofanous,  Victor  Lourenco,  Vaughn [LAST NAME?],  Drew  Williamson,
Harry Tokarz and Wayne St.  John met with Oechsler,  his son and Graham
Lightfoot  at the motel the Oechslers were staying at in West  Carlton,
near Ottawa, Ontario.

     They  all  had  breakfast together as  Oechsler  told  many,  many
fascinating  stories.    Eventually they ended up in  Oechsler's  motel
room to compare their copies of the Guardian video.

     "Oechsler,  despite being an expert in video analysis, had a great
deal  of difficulty connecting my video camera up to the tv set in  his
room  so that we could play back the Guardian videos.   In  retrospect,
his combination of technical ineptness and more story telling seemed to
be a stalling tactic", said Tom.
  

     They  stopped  at  a spot off Highway 7 near  Manion  Corners  and
Graham  pointed  out the direction from which the 1989 'UFO'  had  come
when  it 'crashed',  and where the Labanek's house was in  relation  to
where the group was standing.

     Oechsler  seemed  to  be stalling once  more,  shooting  video  of
everything.

     Finally, they set off again.

     "This  time  Oechsler took the lead,  with me  following  him  and
Graham  who's supposed to be our guide following me!"   Tom  says.   "I
thought at the time that this was pretty odd.    How did Oechsler,  who
supposedly had never been to Canada,  let alone this area before,  know
his  way,  using  side-roads  and making the correct  turns toward  our
destination?"
  
     Earlier,  Oechsler  had  asked  the Toronto  group  to  check  for
anomalies  on  their compasses while they  were  driving,  because  the
Guardian papers described magnetic changes in certain parts of the area
the group was travelling in.

     "So, we're driving down a small hill when Oechsler braked suddenly
up ahead of us, stopped and came back to our car to tell me that he had
found an anomaly on his two compasses", Tom recounts, "now, he had both
of his laying in the back of his pick-up on the metal floor where  they
were  bouncing around.    His son was keeping an eye on them  from  the
cab.  I told him that the three compasses,  we were holding in the palms
of our hands,  in our car didn't waver at all.    But, he insisted that
he'd go back up the hill, by himself, and check again."

     While  the  rest of the group stood around waiting  for  Oechsler,
Drew  Williamson  noticed  a Stop-sign at the end of  a  long  driveway
leading to an abandoned farmhouse with a For-Sale sign on it.

     Tom  continues - "I looked through my binoculars at the  Stop-sign
and  saw  that it was propped up by rocks.    There  were  other  signs
around it that read 'Do Not Enter' and 'DND Killing Fields'.   The last
one  had  pictographs  of tanks,  helicopters and  weapons  on  it  and
appeared to be riddled with bullet-holes.
  
     "So,  out of curiosity, we went over to the signs and looked  more
closely."

     "We  found  tracks  left by cars and what might  have  been  four-
wheeled vehicles, leading into the property.   We felt that perhaps the
field  around  the old farm house was being used for 'War Games'  -  or
maybe even was the location used for the Guardian video."

     "Why?   Because the terrain was perfect - lots (200 acres) of open
field.   I also noticed a dog barking up at the house at the top of the
hill." said Tom.

     This  would become significant later in identifying  the  possible
location of the Guardian video shoot.

     "Eventually,  we  continued  along Corkery  Road.    But,  when  I
mentioned to Oechsler that we should be interviewing the people in  the
neighbourhood  we  were passing,  who were out sitting in  their  front
gardens  or working on their lawns,  he insisted that we look  for  the
'crash' or 'landing' sites."

     Guardian's  map  described an area about one and a  quarter  miles
square, which consisted of dense, knee-high scrub, and wet, swampland.
  
     The  group  headed toward it,  using a path  beneath  high-tension
power transmission lines that cut across below the southern end of  the
Labanek's property.

     Most  of them had great difficulty with the rough  conditions  and
became  very  tired,  annoyed by biting mosquitoes and  soaked  by  the
swampy  ground.  They gave about a half way into the swamp  and  headed
back to the back to the parking lot.

     Tom picks up the story again:   "Bob and his son continued to look
for  the landing site as the rest of us left the swamp in a  couple  of
different groups.   Lise,  Drew,  Wayne and I left first and drove  off
looking for a drink of cold pop."

     "When  we got back to the parking lot twenty  minutes  later,  the
second  group out had left a note on our windshield saying they'd  meet
us at a restaurant twenty minutes away in Carp.   We left a note on the
Oechsler's truck windshield telling them where we'd be.

     "The first of our group to arrive at the restaurant ordered  their
food  and  twenty minutes later the rest of us arrived and  placed  our
orders."
  
     "Thirty  minutes  later,  as  Oechsler and his  son  were  walking
through the door, I jokingly said: I bet he'll say he found the spot!"

     "As  he sat down,  I asked him what had happened.   He smiled  and
said he'd found the spot."

     "I asked how he'd managed to do that when we'd left him a about  a
mile  from his car in a dense swamp halfway to the alleged site and  it
was getting dark.    There simply hadn't been enough time to get  there
examine  the  'site'  and get back out to his truck and  drive  to  the
restaurant.   He just smiled, but didn't answer."

     After they finished their dinner,  Drew, Victor and Vaughn decided
to leave for Toronto.

     Graham  suggested  that  the  remainder  should  go  talk  to  the
Labanek,  and he and Harry left ahead of Tom & Lise and the Oechslers,
since Oechsler senior was still eating.    The seven of them would meet
at the corner by the Labaneks.

     "Lise,  Wayne  and I confronted Oechsler out in the  parking  lot,
where the three of us had gone to discuss the days events privately."
  
     "I  asked him what he was trying to pull here.    He responded  by
asking  "what's wrong with trying to make a buck?",   I  answered  that
there  was  nothing  wrong  with making money  as  long  as  we  didn't
compromise our ethics."

     "Oechsler  came back with:  "No matter what or how good the  story
is,  50% of the people will believe you,  50% wont.    All you have  to
care about is the 50% that will".

     "It was at that point",  recalls Tom, "that I decided to back away
from the investigation for a while to see what Oechsler would do."

     They  joined the others at Manion Corner by the Labaneks house  -
Graham had knocked on their door but there was no one  home.  So,  they
waited, enjoying a pleasant early summer evening, talking.

     The  Labaneks didn't get home till after 10 p.m,  which the  group
felt was late to do an interview.   Graham and Oechsler would come  back
the next morning and talk to them

     Tom finishes up this part of the story:  "I told Graham about  the
conversation  that  I  had in the parking lot of  the  restaurant  with
Oechsler, after he left the restaurant.   Then Lise, Harry, Wayne and I
left for Toronto, shaking our heads."












 






End Part One, continue with 
PART TWO 

