Francis Ridge:

Francis Ridge has been a Field Investigator since November
of 1960, at first with NICAP ( National Investigations Committee on Aerial
Phenomena), then later for CUFOS (Center for UFO Studies), and MUFON (Mutual 
UFO Network). His 40-plus years has involved investigations of hundreds
of UFO reports, but few were as interesting as this Close Encounter, E-M
case in October of 1973, right at the peak of a world-wide sighting wave.
Francis Ridge:
It was October 20, 1973, and near Mt. Vernon & Evansville,
Indiana. This incident occurred during the massive sighting wave
of 1973, and within a few days of one of our rare MADAR detections. My
wife got a call early that morning. I was at work. She told me that the
man was very serious about something that had happened that morning. The
man calling was a conductor on a L&N train and had just had an encounter
with a UFO at 6:50 AM, just a few miles east of our home. To be precise,
it was at a point on the tracks near St. Phillips, which is about 8-miles
east of us towards Evansvilles. I got in the car and headed home, called
the man and taped the interview. Later I conducted a full investigation. 
The original train crew had experienced engine trouble near Upton, a
little town 3-4 miles northwest of Mt. Veron. One of the rear diesal units
had been overheating and the Burlington engine was pulling a 6,000-ton
load, overloaded under these conditions. The maintenance man at Upton was
a 30-year man and told the conductor that the rear unit was "dead"and that
there was, in his words, "no use messin' with it." He'd already tried.
In any case, the new crew lumbered in to Mt. Vernon, taking 20-25 minutes
longer to get there than usual. The sky was clear, temperature was a cool
55-degrees, wind was calm. Again, it was about 6:50 AM. 

They had gone through Mt. Vernon and were nearing the Lamont crossing,
2-miles east of the city, heading east for Evansville. The sun was just
barely peeking over the tree tops. The two men in the front engine saw
a very bright, but distant, light in the sky coming out of the north. At
first they thought it was an aircraft, then later decided that it couldn't
be. The object was very bright and was tracking north to south, pulsating
from real bright to dim to bright. The distant light appeared to travel
a short distance, 50-60' between pulsations. The light finally turned more
east towards Evansville and disappeared. 
When they neared Caborn (6-7 miles east of Mt. Vernon), the lead conductor
told the rear conductors by intercom that they had seen a real bright light.When
they got near St. Phillips, the rear conductor reported that there now
was a train following them, on the same track. By then they had gotten
up on Belknap hill (at Peerlsess Crossing), "a pretty good pull on a train",
and had gotten hung up. One of the rear men suggested that they should
get the train behind them, which he said had been following them for awhile,
to push them. The lead conductor replied, "Well, I haven't heard him on
the radio." After a short while the rear man suggested the same solution
to the problem, again: "Well, he's been following us and I can see his
light back there and the 'board' is red!" The object following them had
given them a "red board" on their blocking system. The signal referred
to here is a series of lights, similar in color to regular traffic lights,
situated on a pole on the side of the tracks. This shows either red, amber,
or green, indicating "danger" , "caution", or "all clear", respectively.
(This signal is a part of the Automatic Blocking System which tells of
other traffic on the same track). The "red board" normally meant that something
was on the track behind them. The rear conductor again suggested that the
crew call the "tower" (Howell Round House at Evansville) and see if there
was a train behind them. 
A quick check with the yardmaster showed that there was no train behind
them at all. Upon receiving the news, the rear conductor replied, "There
is a headlight behinds us. I can see it. It's real bright."  After
the train had gotten hung up and had stopped on Belknap Hill, they got
out and looked around. The conductor, after backing the train down the
hill, got out, walked down to the rear unit and pressed the restart button.
To his surprise the unit "kicked right off, ran real good". The light or
the object was now moving off, back from where it had come from. According
to the conductor, whatever had given them a "red board", now was giving
them a "green board". As he, himself, stated, "The board went green. The
light cleared up the board". The train, previously hampered with a bad
rear unit and way over-tonnage, was now fully able to climb the steep,
hill and made it in to Howell without further mishap! 


What makes this case interesting is in this detailed report (this is
only a synopsis) something very bright was first seen, then a similar bright
light follows a train, a diesal. Tractors and other diesals have been virtually
unaffected by UFOs. The Blocking System reacts as the object approaches
and recedes, just as if there was a train on that track. The train, originally
disabled (and reportedly with a "dead" rear unit) now works fine even with
over-tonnage when the UFO is out of the picture. All this during a massive
sighting wave with some of the best close encounters we ever recorded!
And that's not all. The crew was reprimanded for filing a report. Later
we found that the engine had been pulled and taken down south to be studied
and reportedly the U.S.Air Force was involved. 
Source:
http://www.nicap.dabsol.co.uk/book.htm
Written by Francis Ridge, then Director of the UFO Filter Center
& MADAR Project.
