 Abduction on North Canol Road, Northern Canada  


At that same instant, the one on the left raised his left hand to his waist, which held some type of flashlight device and I saw a bright flash of light come from it.



I instantly felt paralyzed and was convinced time had stopped, everything was black, no sound. I tried to yell "No!" but all that came out was a distorted grunt.



Next thing I knew I was standing on the side of the road scared, shaking and confused. 

Within seconds I remembered all of this that had just taken place and I thought, "I'm getting out of here before they get me again." I turned around to get my bike and for some reason it was not there, then I noticed it was on the other side of the road. I said to myself, "what the hell is this? I didn't put it there". Still panicking I rushed over and got on it and realized the keys were gone.

I always left the keys in it, that way I could not lose them while sneaking around in the bush. I immediately started looking down the road and suddenly saw them in my hand. I started my bike and raced back to the trailer.

I was feeling scared and amazed at the same time and then noticed that all the shadows of the trees were pointing in a different direction than that of the morning sun. About 15 minutes later I was at the trailer. Half an hour later it was dark. I thought "no way, I only left here an hour ago, what's going on?"

I was really confused then, I said to myself, "I'm not telling anybody about this, I'll just forget the whole thing".

I put on a pot of coffee and could then hear a soft humming sound above the trailer. I could also feel a soft vibration in everything (trailer, air, etc.). After about 10 minutes it had all stopped. I had a very strong feeling that they were outside. I did not look out the windows.

Later that night I still couldn't sleep and while having my coffee I began to have flashbacks of the past events. I remember being in a dream-like state watching scenery flash by underneath as if I was flying. I watched mountains and rivers and forests go by at a very high rate of speed.

I then became aware of other sounds and seemed to wake up. I opened my eyes and could see nothing but black, very deep and inky black. As I was looking at this, the blackness pulled back, revealing a face, I had been looking into the eyes of a grey type creature. I could hear in my mind a voice saying "there is nothing to worry about". I could hear him talking in my mind.

There were 3 or 4 of these types walking around, but only one talked to me. The two I saw earlier on the road, I never saw again. (Note: the aliens that he saw at this point were of the typical "grey type" while the ones at the edge of the road were more insectoid.)

I then sat up and had an idea of what might be going on and I asked, "Are you going to do experiments on me?" and the one said, "They've already been done." I felt really good then because, except for a strange sensation in my hands everything felt normal. I kept rubbing my hands together but did not look at them, as there was a totally strange environment to look at instead. I experienced no discomfort.

The being nearest me asked if I would like to see my home planet and I said sure. I then walked over to the window, where there was a machine that looked like a big copy machine. He asked me not to touch it, I replied "Don't worry, I'm not touching anything in here".


He then said, that bright white star is your home. I didn't know anything about astronomy at the time, but I always thought earth was blue, so right away I thought he's lying. He also explained to me about space and stars etc. but I can't remember any of it now.

I was also asked if I would like to go on a trip. I replied "Not yet", I felt very honoured to be asked and I did want to go, but felt that the time was not right.

Then I was told I would have to forget all of this. I was disappointed at hearing this. The first part of the experience was very scary, but once I was with them, I found them to be friendly, helpful and their looks didn't bother me. They actually seemed like old friends.

They gave me a clear glass, ¾ full with a yellow liquid and said to drink it up, it would make me forget everything. I told them, I did not want to forget an experience like this. It should be remembered! I was told it was for my own good that I forget. So I took 3 little sips and put the glass down.

Next thing I know, I'm on the road by my bike, scared to death and wanting to get out of there.

The next day I met up with the other two guys and never said anything to them.

Martin Jasek, M.Sc., P.Eng.
http://www.ufobc.ca/yukon/n-canol-abd/index.htm
