
1978-Police Officer Suffers Burns from a UFO



THE FRESNO BEE-Manuel Amparano talks about sighting an unidentified flying
object at 3:32 a.m. May 13, 1978, as if it happened only days
ago. Coming face-to-face with a UFO creates vivid memories.

Amparano's sighting is one of the most detailed of the many
accounts of UFO sightings in the Fresno area documented over the
years in The Fresno Bee and on Web sites.

The Fresno resident was working as a Kerman police officer.

"It was just a routine patrol," Amparano says of the encounter
24 years ago.

His early morning sweep took him past Kerman High School. At Del
Norte and California avenues, Amparano saw "a circular-type
thing, similar to a round fireball or a setting sun, about 100
to 150 feet off the ground."

He knew local teens had been setting palm trees on fire, and he
thought he had caught some young vandals red-handed.

"Then I realized there were no palm trees in the area. The fire
seemed to be inside of an oak or maple tree. This thing started
lifting up," Amparano says.

The officer started adjusting the spotlight on his patrol car to
get a better look at the object. But just before he turned on
the light, there was a bright blue flash. Then the object made a
sharp turn and moved away toward the southwest at a rapid speed.

Amparano had not left his car. And the windows were rolled up
because it was a cold evening. He did not hear any other noise
except for the engine of his car.

The Air National Guard, weather bureau and the Fresno Air
Terminal told Amparano nothing unusual showed up on any of their
radar screens that night. The encounter might have been
dismissed as an optical illusion, if not for the burns Amparano
suffered on his face and chest.

"It was like a sunburn when you fall asleep at the pool. There
were white blisters on the parts of my body facing that light. I
also had trouble with sunlight. It was like right after you have
your eyes checked and they are sensitive to light. That lasted
about a week," Amparano says.

Doctors at Fresno Community Hospital told Amparano the burns
appeared to be caused by microwaves.

An immediate search of the cotton field where the sphere had
been sighted revealed no evidence. But for years, nothing would
grow in a round area in the field. Today the spot is part of an
almond orchard.

Amparano went back to work a few days later. The only after-
affect of the close encounter was calls from "a lot of women who
wanted to have lunch and dinner with me." He continued to work
in local law enforcement until 1992, when he was hurt while
breaking up a bar fight.

He's had more than two decades to think about that glowing
sphere. Amparano is certain it was a UFO.

"What I am not certain about is whether it was some kind of
government project or something from out there," Amparano says.
written by Rick Bentley


Source & References:

http://www.fresnobee.com/lifestyle/story/5440245p-6425488c.html
(Published Monday, December 2, 2002, 5:55 AM)
