The Allagash Abduction

The Event: 

The Allagash Waterway is a series of lakes and canals in the breathtaking mountains of Maine. This lovely area would be the site of one of the most discussed and best documented alien abduction cases on record. A dramatized version was featured on the "Unsolved Mysteries" television show. The Allagash incident would involve multiple witnesses, four to be exact, twin brothers Jack and Jim Weiner, along with their friends Chuck Rak and Charlie Foltz. The four men had met while studying at the Massachusetts College of Art, and they were all beginning their respective careers. The four artists would turn into sportsmen for what they thought would be an enjoyable, relaxing trip. Their trip to Allagash would be memorable, but not for the reasons they had hoped for.  


It would be in August 1976, that the four men began their vacation, and part way through their canoeing, they reached Eagle Lake, padding to it's mouth to do some fishing. Not having any luck, and running low on food, they decided to try some night fishing. Before leaving the bank, they built an extremely large campfire to be a landmark light from the water. After a time on the lake, the four suddenly saw a light... a light that seemed much brighter than a star. The glowing orb was hovering over the trees a couple of hundred yards away. The object changed colors as it moved back and forth; red, then green, then a whitish yellow. The massive object was estimated to be about 80 feet in diameter. The object slowly moved across the tops of the trees along the bank, and as it came closer to the four fishermen, Charlie Foltz signaled an SOS with his flashlight. Immediately, the object silently moved toward the canoe. 

 A guarded curiosity now turned into a frantic dash for the bank. As they paddled as fast as they could, a hollow light came from the object, engulfing the men and their canoe. The next thing the men knew, they were standing on the bank again. Charlie pointed his flashlight toward the object again, but this time it rose up and out of their view, as it showed it's beam once more before disappearing into the Allagash sky. Wondering what had transpired, the men were shocked to see their once glowing fire to be nothing but smoldering ashes. This should have taken several hours, and the four friends wondered, "What happened to the last couple of hours?"

Very little was said as the four men packed up their gear and went back to the everyday grinds of their respective careers. In time the night of the UFO would begin to have a profound effect on their lives.
Jack Weiner was the first to start having nightmares. In these dreams, he saw beings with long necks, and large heads. He saw the beings examining his arm, while Jim, Chuck, and Charlie sat on a nearby bench, not able to intervene. The beings had large metallic glowing eyes with no lids, and their hands were insect-like, with four fingers. The other three men were experiencing very similar dreams, with short, mental clips of that awful night on the lake. In 1988, out of curiosity, Jim Weiner attended a UFO conference hosted by Raymond Fowler. Weiner met Fowler afterwards, and related his strange encounter. The investigator was excited about Jim's story, especially the fact that it was a multiple witness occurrence. Fowler suggested to Jim that he and the others undergo regressive hypnosis. After the sessions, it was revealed that all four of the men had been abducted, and subjected to humiliating physical examinations, including the taking of skin and fluid samples. 



The men's description of the aliens was consistent, and being artists, they were able to make detailed sketches of the entities, the craft, and the examining instruments. Chuck Rak added that the aliens' test area was similar to a vet's office, with a silvery table. He also related a strange fact: he had much difficulty in focusing on the aliens. When he tried, he could not put an exact image to them. He compared it to trying to tune in a fuzzy radio station.After the psychiatric examinations, all four of the men were deemed to be mentally stable, and they all passed lie-detector tests. All of the information gleaned from the detailed hypnotic sessions, and investigative reports provide strong evidence that something "not of this world" was encountered by these four men on the Allagash Waterway in 1976. This case is still considered unexplainable by conventional scientific means. 

(Allagash The Event written by B J Booth)


Aftermath:
When you chat with Anthony Constantino, there's always one inevitable
question: "Do you believe them?" "Them" is a group of four friends who
went camping on the Allagash Waterway in northern Maine in the summer
of 1976. Maybe you saw them recently on the Joan Rivers Show, where
they detailed an ordeal in which they claimed they had a close
encounter with a UFO. They are receiving national attention with the
release this summer of "The Allagash Abductions" written by Raymond
Fowler of Wenham who is a director of investigations for the Mutual
UFO Network.

Those who are familiar with this case know that the full story, with
all its mysterious and harrowing details, wasn't revealed until
Anthony Constantino of Beverly placed the four men under hypnosis, and
revealed events that had been pushed into their unconscious.

"It was the most intense experience I've had as a hypnotist," says
Constantino.

The conscious part of the story begins on Thursday, August 26, 1976,
when the four men - Chuck Rak, Charlie Foltz, and identical twins Jim
and Jack Weiner, set up camp on Eagle Lake in Maine, and decided to go
fishing in the evening.  They built a huge bonfire to act as a beacon
for their return to camp.

Soon after they were out in their canoe, they saw "a large bright
sphere of colored light hovering motionless and soundless about 200 to
300 feet above the southeastern rim of the cove," according to Rak.

Foltz blinked a flashlight at the object. Maybe that was a bad idea.
The UFO began to approach the canoe, while a cone-shaped beam of light
from the object struck the water and began following the canoe. More
inspired than any Olympic athletes, the four campers began paddling
for shore.

But the beam engulfed them, and the next thing they remembered, they
were in the canoe, near the shore of the lake, watching the UFO ascend
and disappear.  The bonfire was now nothing more than embers. Built
with heavy logs, the fire should have lasted hours. It was the first
indication that more time had elapsed than they could remember, but
they had no conscious memory of what had happened.

It was years later before the four men explored that missing period
of time. When Jim Weiner suffered tempero-limbic epilepsy, his
doctors asked him to report any unusual experiences that might be
symptomatic. Weiner described his UFO experience, and various
phenomena that had happened to him and his camping buddies since then.
His doctors suggested he contact a UFO researcher.

Enter Anthony Constantino. A professional hypnotist from Beverly, who
also works as an English teacher at Masconomet High School,
Constantino had hypnotized Ray Fowler in 1988, helping him to remember
the details of Fowler's own alleged abduction in Danvers.

Fowler was leading the investigation of the Allagash abductions for
the Mutual UFO Network, and he wanted Constantino to hypnotize each of
the four men separately.

All four men were willing to participate.

"It's natural," says Constantino. "They wanted to know if something
had happened to them -- especially if it were something traumatic.
They wanted to know for sure."

In 1989, in the dark den of Constantino's Beverly home, each of the
four men separately recounted a tale of being beamed aboard the UFO
that night on Eagle Lake. Under hypnosis, they described the diffusely
lit, sterile interior of the spacecraft, the spindly fingered big-eyed
bald-headed aliens that Whitley Strieber popularized with his
non-fiction book "Communion," and strange medical experiments
conducted on each man.

Constantino says Fowler was cool and professional as he observed the
12 hours of hypnosis sessions, but Constantino admits that at times he
had difficulty repressing his own astonishment.

"I'm the one who kept making faces at Ray, like, I can't believe
this. I can't believe what was done to these guys."

 Which brings us back to The Question. Constantino conducted
three-hour hypnosis sessions with each of the four men. He heard their
voices fill with fear as they explained how medical instruments were
inserted into their bodies, and how communication from the aliens was
telepathic.

 Constantino says he went into the session "with no preconceived
notions," nothing more than a healthy curiosity about an unexplained
phenomenon.

But was he convinced?

"Do you believe them?" Constantino is asked.

He pauses and rubs his chin, as if weighing the gravity of the question. 

He looks up and nods solemnly.

"I do," he says. After working with those guys, I was scared. I still
am. I think it's true. I think they were being tagged -- the way we
tag and study sharks and bears and then release them. The men were
highly indignant that they were taken (aboard) and these things were
done to them without their permission.

(Allagash Aftermath written by Alexander Stevens)

This article was taken from the Arts & Leisure section of the North Shore Sunday
newspaper published in Salem, MA  dated September 12, 1993:

sources:
Ray Fowler, "The Allagash Abductions."
Return to  Alien Abductions Index












 





 Allagash Abduction, Part 2.

