FORT WORTH, Tex., July 8--(AP)--An object found near Roswell, N.M., which created a storm of speculation today [or "Tuesday"] that it might be one of the mysterious flying "discs" or saucers" was a weather balloon and its kite, the Eighth Air Force announced tonight [or "Tuesday night"].
  The announcement was made by Brig. General [also "Major General"] Roger M. Ramey, commander of the Eighth Air Force with headquarters at Fort Worth.
   The object was flown from Roswell to Fort Worth by the Air Force, where it was identified by Warrant Officer Irving Newton of Medford, Wis., of the base weather station.

   Warrant Officer Newton said there were some 80 weather stations in the United States using this type of balloon, with stations releasing balloons according to changes in the weather.
  "We use the balloons because they can go so much higher than the eye can see," Newton explained.  A radar set is employed to follow the balloon and through a process of triangulation the winds aloft are charted, he added.
   When rigged up, Newton stated, the object looks like a six-pointed star, is silvery in appearance, and rises in the air like a kite, mounted to a 100-gram balloon.


   Newton said he had sent up identical balloons to this one during the invasion of Okinawa to determine the ballistics information for heavy guns.

   The weather device was flown to Fort Worth Army air field by a B-29 from Roswell Army air field at 10 a.m., Tuesday at the command of Brigadier General Ramey.

  General Ramey said that several of the balloons were released daily according to changes in the weather.
   Suspended from the balloons are kites or six-sided stars, covered with a shiny material such as tinfoil. These objects are traced by radar and computations from the radar reveal air currents.
   The object found in New Mexico was badly damaged.
   The balloons measure 50 inches across, but expand greatly as they ascend, Air Force officers reported.  They sometimes reach 60,000 feet.  The kites and stars generally are more than five feet in diameter.

   The balloon and the object it carries are technically known as "ray wind [sic] high altitude sounding device," popularly known as "weather radar target."

   General Ramey said the object found in New Mexico definitely was a United States Army device.


   Plans to fly the object to Wright Field for further investigation were cancelled.







   A public relations officer said it was in his office, "and it'll probably stay right there."


   General Ramey spoke over a local radio station (WBAP) Tuesday night after the Eighth Air Force headquarters was flooded with queries concerning the object.


   In his broadcast, he said that anyone who found an object he believed to be a "flying disc" should contact the nearest Army office or Sheriff's office.

   Later, he said that the weather device could be mistaken for almost anything when seen in the air.
   "I don't say these devices are what people have called disc," he said.  "There is no such gadget (as the disc/disk) known to the Army--at least this far down the line."

   It had been found three weeks previously by a New Mexico rancher, W. W. Brazell [sic], on his property about 85 miles northwest of Roswell.

   Brazell, whose ranch is 30 miles from the nearest telephone and has no radio, knew nothing about flying discs when he found the broken remains of the weather device scattered over a square mile of his land.





   He bundled the tinfoil and broken wooden beams of the kite and the torn synthetic rubber remains on the balloon together and rolled it under some brush, according to Maj. Jesse A. Marcel, Houma, La., 509th Bomb Group Intelligent [sic] Officer at Roswell, who brought the device to Fort Worth.
   On a trip to town at Corona, N.M., Saturday night, Brazell heard the first reference to the "silver" flying disks, Maj. Marcel related.
   Brazell hurried home, dug up the remnants of the kite balloon on Sunday, and Monday headed for Roswell to report his find to the Sheriff's office.



   This resulted in a call to Roswell Army Air Field and to Maj. Marcel's being assigned to the case.  Marcel and Brazell journeyed back to the ranch, where Marcel took the object into custody of the Army.
  After Col. William H. Blanchard, 509th Commanding Officer, reported the incident to Gen. Ramey, he was ordered to dispatch the object to Fort Worth Army Air Field immediately.
  About that time word broke from Roswell that a flying disc finally had been found.
  After his first look, Ramey declared all it was was a weather balloon.  The weather officer verified his view.





  (A similar object was identified last night at Adrian, Mo., by the Kansas City Weather Bureau.
   Grant Cook found the tinfoil-covered object on his farm and notified authorities.  Investigation by meteorologists revealed it as a reflector for radar signals.  Printed on the reflector was the notation: "W.X.X.--Feb. 21--M.P.")
   Army weather experts in Washington, however, discounted any idea that such weather targets might be the basis for the scores of reports of "flying discs."
   Brigadier General Donald N. Yates, chief of the AAF weather service, said only a very few of them are used daily, at points where some specific project requires highly accurate wind information from extreme altitudes.  Without field reports he would not hazard a guess on a precise number, he said.

  For ordinary purposes, General Yates told a reporter, the AAF uses balloon-borne radiosondes much on the order employed by the weather bureau, tracking them with radio direction finders.  Those instruments consist of a milky-white balloon five or six feet in diameter with the automatic radio transmitting apparatus suspended below in a package about cigar box size.
   During the war, General Yates said, the radar target method of wind checking was standard practice because of the high degree of accuracy needed.
   The U. S. weather bureau said it uses none of the radar target balloons at land stations.  Some are used from coast guard vessels in the Atlantic, bureau officials said, but they normally blow eastward toward Europe.
   Between the Army and the weather bureau, hundreds of weather balloons without the metallic target are released daily from points all over the country.
   Ivan R. Tannehill, weather bureau chief forecaster, pointer out, however, that such balloons have been in use for many years.  He said they were unlikely to have been mistaken "all over the country and all in one week" for mysterious objects speeding through the sky at supersonic speeds.
